# Open Science and Capacity Building Working Group Meeting
 
Date: April 17th, 2025 
 
## ðŸ‘‹  Icebreaker 
 
*(Getting to know each other and this Etherpad for collaborative notes)*
 
**Name** 

   * Malvika
   * Precious
   * Valentine
   * Rachel
   * Raphael
   * Diatta
   * Chiekh

Apologies

   * Miranda (on leave)

**[Meeting did not hold because most of the community were on holiday.]**

## ðŸ“£ Agenda:

**Before this meeting:**

   * We are hosting coworking calls every week on Wednesdays: [https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/dswb-coworking-calls](https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/dswb-coworking-calls)
   * Check out the template for Challenge Clinic, a meeting format we will try out this week: [https://github.com/aphrc-dswb/dswb-open-science-capacity-wg/blob/main/project-management/collaboration/challenge-clinic.md](https://github.com/aphrc-dswb/dswb-open-science-capacity-wg/blob/main/project-management/collaboration/challenge-clinic.md) 


**During this meeting: Agenda**

   * Present the full year plan for the Working Group
   * Try out a challenge clinic - a format we would like to introduce and run periodically as part of the future WG meetings.


### Describing your challenge

Please share any critical situation/problem from your project/team that is/was particularly challenging for you to deal with recently. It can be about data sharing, collaboration, project management or any skills/capacity-related issue. You can use the following prompts to think about and add details about your challenge.

**Template**

   * *Name: [YOUR NAME]*
       * *What open science and capacity building related challenge am I currently encountering in my project?*
       * *What are the indicators that this issue is particularly challenging?*
       * *Who in my project is involved in addressing it?*
       * *Additional comments, such as how will solving this issue affect my work/team/community?*

Use one of the sections below to add your challenge

---
**Challenge 1**

   * **Name:**
       * Challenge: 
       * Indicators of challenge:
       * Collaborators:
       * Additional comments: 


### Notes from previous meeting

   * We did a presentation on hackathons, sharing the different types of hackathons, and considerations to put in place when organizing one.
     There was a general agreement to ask the AHRI team for pointers on how they ran theirs, so others can learn from them.

More details can be found in the previous meeting note, [here](https://github.com/aphrc-dswb/dswb-open-science-capacity-wg/blob/main/project-management/wg-meetings/20250403-oscb-wg-notes.md). 
