# Open Science and Capacity Building Working Group Meeting
 
Date: March 6th, 2025
 
## ðŸ‘‹  Icebreaker 
 
*(Getting to know each other and this Etherpad for collaborative notes)*
 
**Name** 

   * Malvika
   * Precious
   * Brenda
   * Moctar
   * Reinpeter
   * David
   * Miranda
   * Anicet
   * Tathagata
   * Chiekh
   * Rachel
   * Diatta
   * Aminata
   * Ousmane
   * Oumou
   * Ashiraf
   * Raissa
   * Moustapha
   * Suzan
   * Bel

**Apologies**

   * Pauline Andeso
   * 

## ðŸ“£ Agenda:

**Before this meeting:**

   * We are hosting coworking calls every week on Wednesdays: [https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/dswb-coworking-calls](https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/dswb-coworking-calls)
   * In the next coworking, we will:
       * Discuss Precious's presentation at the AGM to gain your thoughts and feedback on our progress as a group. You can view the presentation here: [https://docs.google.com/file/d/1MbOMoNYTn-biVMgwIcHcqyMSnhWd\_h2g/edit?usp=docslist\_api\&filetype=mspresentation](https://docs.google.com/file/d/1MbOMoNYTn-biVMgwIcHcqyMSnhWd\_h2g/edit?usp=docslist\_api\&filetype=mspresentation).

**During this meeting:**

   * Brainstorm and plan a schedule for WG for the next 4 to 6 months. 
       * We want to implement some project management process and ensure people involved in the WG can lead on some of their ideas in the second year of DSWB.
   * Report out and AOB

**After this meeting:**

   *  Action Items would be noted, and put in place.

## Notes

   * It seems the format of introducing a topic and talking about it is going well based on feedback, but we are exploring having more members of the community influence these topics, and share about them during meetings.
   * Review of the presentation at the AGM.
       * [https://docs.google.com/file/d/1MbOMoNYTn-biVMgwIcHcqyMSnhWd\_h2g/edit?usp=docslist\_api\&filetype=mspresentation](https://docs.google.com/file/d/1MbOMoNYTn-biVMgwIcHcqyMSnhWd\_h2g/edit?usp=docslist\_api\&filetype=mspresentation)
       * Way Forward:
           * More capacity building efforts
           * Community members sharing knowledge, and requesting support where needed.
           * What are some efforts or plans we have?
               * Question: Concerning CoPs, are we working with what we currently have, or are we creating new one?
           * Now that we have students on board, are there specific plans for them, and how can they be added to the working group? 
               * They can be a part of ongoing projects in the WG. 
                   * Chapters relative to our demographic can be added to the Turing Way.
                   * Interest groups can be created for members to work together on topics of interest within the DSWB project. Hackathons can also be participated in. 
                   * AI: Explore and provide pathways for members of the community to propose interest groups and what can be worked on.
           * We can explore policies for the project that can help us improve our work. 
           * Key topics on data - access, sharing, harmonization, etc - can be explored to educate and engage the students.
           * We can explore FAIR principle guidelines, open access policy. 
           * We can identify what needs guidlines, and what needs policy. 
               * Resource: [https://book.the-turing-way.org](https://book.the-turing-way.org)
               * We should also explore how these aligns with our funders, as they currently have policies in place.
   * What do we want to discuss and work on over the next months?
   * Miranda: Project management tools, challenges and using data science to improve your workflow
   * Planning a hackathon
   * Project coordination and management practices: non-technical
       * AI applied for project management
   * Balancing technical with non technical skills
   * Open science tools
       * Pick 1-2 tools and walk through
       * Looking at functionality and how it works for the project
   * Team dynamics and how to be aware of tasks like note taking that may not be taken on by everyone naturally
   * Identifying need of local institutions
       * Working with technical partners to identify best way to deliverable
       * We can explore problem clinics (scenarios where we dissect a problem or challenge and work on fixing it) once in two months to learn about challenges, and how to navigate them. 
   * Data sensitivity (what to share and what not to share)
   * How do we identify Metadata
       * Examples and resources
   * Naming convention

**ACTION:** After this meeting, we will send around a document

**AOB**

   * 
   * 


### Notes from previous meeting

   * Concept familiarisation: Stakeholder Engagement for data science projects: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uyPMjnF7OE8r1ggd4I9VJ-IG4FQqsty\_YbVo6OKv7j0/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uyPMjnF7OE8r1ggd4I9VJ-IG4FQqsty\_YbVo6OKv7j0/edit?usp=sharing)
   * OSPO Now team will present the first draft Stakeholder Engagement Map for DSWB, and invite your feedback: [https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVLgVaxak=/](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVLgVaxak=/)

See [this github page](https://github.com/aphrc-dswb/dswb-open-science-capacity-wg/blob/main/project-management/wg-meetings/20250220-oscb-wg-notes.md) for more details.
